# Overview

[**ShipanShop**](https://github.com/rlichiere/shipan) is a flexible e-commerce website solution.
 Built using the [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) framework,
 **ShipanShop** offers the functionalities to manage an **online shop** in complete autonomy:
 **feeding articles**, taking and tracking **orders**, **customer management** and other type of features. 


## Features

* Operator
  * installation commands
* Vendor
  * feed the products and their sizes, colors and pictures
  * 
* Client
  * join and logout
* Visitor
  * see home page
  * shop
    * browse products by season, categories, colors and sizes
  * sign-in


## Installation

The easiest method is to download directly from the Git repository by running the command below,
```
$ git clone https://github.com/rlichiere/shipan.git
```

Once downloaded, the command `install` can be used to configure and install the application,
 which makes it ready to run the Django server.
```
$ python manage.py install
```

## Run

Once installed, the standard Django command `runserver` can be used to run the server. 

```
$ python manage.py runserver 8080
```

## Tune, feed, test

Once running, the website can be tuned and fed in order to be opened to the external visitors.

### Tune

Connect to the administration backoffice, and take your bearings by checking the main aspects of your configuration ;
you can also refine the configuration if necessary.

### Feed

Once the configuration is ready, you can feed the shop catalog with your data: products, sizes, colors, etc.

### Test

Once the catalog is fed, do not hesitate to check every corner of the site,
 as it could be very damaging to open access if unwanted behaviour can be encountered,
 especially during the first visits.

Some tips to guide your audits:

* check the proper functioning of visitor registration, as well as the integrity of the data displayed
* invite some friends and/or monkey-team people to practice your website

## Open

Once you're happy with the quality of the website, then you're ready to open it to the public.


## Maintenance

Once opened, the **ShipanShop** will require some maintenance treatment.

* Vendor
  * season switching
  * regular configuration changes
* Operator
  * proceed to periodic backups of the data and configuration
    * plan a periodic backup recovery to a sandbox, to ensure its recoverability 

### Vendor

#### Update data, season switch

#### Regular configuration changes

### Operator

#### Backup / Restore

#### Upgrade to a new version 

It is highly recommended to follow the **ShipanShop** upgrades.

The procedures is made as fluid as possible, avoiding the compatibility breaks as much as possible.
When this occurs to be the case, a migration tool is provided to facilitate the operation. 


## Scope considerations

This software being provided as is, its author and contributors cannot be held responsible
 for any inconvenience that may arise from its use.

Thus, please check the legislative inventory required to operate the website you are about to operate. 

In the event that you encounter a conflict or any difficulty
 in complying with the legislative range of your application context,
 do not hesitate to describe the problem in the Git repository of the application
 so that it can be taken into account in a later version.


### R.G.P.D
 
A fully R.G.P.D compliance is planed, but not yet scheduled.
In the meantime, the people concerned have to deal with what the have.


## Support

To **report a security issue**, please send an email privately to the **ShipanShop** author:
```
from shipan import config
config.VERSION.AuthorContact
```
This gives us a chance to fix the issue and create an official release prior to the issue being made public.

For **all other ShipanShop support**,
 the primary channel is the [Repository support](https://github.com/rlichiere/shipan/projects/1) project.
 Questions, comments, issues, feature requests, and all other related discussions should take place here.
 
If you're **certain** you've comme across a bug,
 then please use the [GitHub issue tracker](http://github.com/rlichiere/shipan/issues),
 however it's crucial that enough information is provided to reproduce the bug, 
 ideally with a small code sample repo we can simply fork, run, and see the issue with.
 Other useful information includes things such as the Python stack trace generated by error pages,
 as well as other aspects of the development environment used, such as operating system, database, and Python version.
 If you're not sure you've found a reproductible bug, then please try the Support project first.


## Contributing

**ShipanShop** is an open source project managed using the Git control system.
This repository is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/rlichiere/shipan),
 so contributing is as easy as forking the project and committing back your enhancements.
